[Music]
this test is at the cutting edge of
research into chimp intelligence if
pansy understands that each token can
buy her a particular food item she
should choose to buy her favorite
oranges and bananas first this will
demonstrate she understands the concept
of currency and value once pansy has
eaten all her favorite foods
she should realize that there is no
point in offering the same token again
[Music]
by the end pansy has successfully bought
and eaten her preferred foods the only
items left are the ones that she does
not particularly value
[Music]
dominant males have a highly stressful
life as they constantly squabble to
protect their position the youngster
can't take his eyes off them
this is his chance to get himself
noticed if he can impress even one of
the big males for the show of strength
he might just be accepted into their
ranks his best attempt at a macho
display has certainly caught their
attention but they are not impressed
in fact this drumming means they're
getting rather angry and they attack the
youngster is not quick enough he gets a
short sharp lesson about how hard it can
be to break into this close-knit gang
[Music]
by observing many different groups of
chimpanzees catcher hopes to compile the
world's first chimp dictionary the
twycross chimps are a useful group to
study there's an ongoing power struggle
between the dominant male Kip and a
young teenage challenger named Peter
fights between the pair are commonplace
the tension is producing a rich and
varied array of chimp communication
across the whole group the first gesture
noticed by catcher comes as a direct
result of the fight Peter is spotted
making a facial expression that
signifies fear the corners of the mouth
are really withdrawn and you can see the
teeth they also do this when they scream
so it can be slightly open
[Applause]
[Music]
chimps also have a facial expression for
playfulness open and the teeth are still
covered with the lips would be like this
so this would be to play face in this
interaction we can see Kip and William
or chasing around and you can see that
it's a playful interaction because
William actually has a play face but
chimps gestures can be far more subtle
than mere facial expressions immediately
after their fight peter tap skip lightly
on the shoulder
it's chimp for saying sorry the
individual that lost the fight will
approach the more dominant one and will
extend its arm to ask for reconciliation
so this is an expression of submissive
behavior
the chimps also show such communications
as displaying which means I'm the boss
pouting which means give me some food
please grooming which means I am your
friend and supporter pretending to bite
means I'm enjoying this play fight all
of these behaviors reinforce social
bonds communicate feelings and establish
who is in charge of the group they even
perform actions that seem all too human
[Music]
but while chimps across the world only
have a limited repertoire of
vocalizations they constantly invent and
share new gestures with each other an
unfamiliar chimp call raises the tension
it's an uncertain time the size of the
rival group is as yet unknown not far
away
their neighbors are feeding in a fig
tree oblivious of the approaching
dangers the patrol moves off with a
sense of purpose they must remain silent
until they close in on their rivals
[Music]
the attack is on to intimidate their
opponents the aggressive scream and drum
on butter fruits
[Music]
several males corner and enemy female
it's a ferocious attack and she's lucky
to escape with her life
[Music]
others are not so fortunate the battle
one a grisly scene unfolds an enemy
youngster has been caught and killed the
carcass is shared between members of the
group and eaten
[Music]